ElastiCache provides managed caching services that are
particularly used by web applications.
There are two open source cache engines,
Redis and Memcached that can be used with ElastiCache, but over time it seems
that Redis has come out as the clearly better solution here.
We're going to use the ElastiCache to create a Redis cache cluster and then use
it to cache our user sessions ensuring our application can scale to a lot of
users without impacting application performance. In the scripts/module_05
folder, opened the create‑redis‑cluster.js file.
Let's get started here by replacing your AWS region first on Line 5.
Next, we need to create our ElastiCache object to run operations on it.
Since ElastiCache is pretty long, create a new const here called
ec, assign to it a new AWS.ElastiCache constructor call. The code
on Line 9 is where the action happens.
We first create a new security group for our Redis
cluster that opens up port 6379.
Then we create the Redis cluster with that security
group ID and then we're done.
So let's implement the createRedisCluster function on Line 13.
We'll start with our params const object.
The first property is CacheClusterId,
which is basically the unique identifier for the cluster.
We'll use the cluster name argument as the value here. For
the next property, add CacheNodeType.
This is like the EC2 instance type.
We'll use the smallest available for our purposes.
Add the string cache.t2.micro.
Next, add the property engine and the value redis.
This just tells ElastiCache what type of cache we want to create.
The next property is NumCacheNodes,
which says how many nodes or instances you want to give the cluster.
For Redis, the value must be 1, so enter that here.
Next,
add the property SecurityGroupIds and set an array with
one property called sgId as the value.
Now we can create our cache inside the promise.
Call ec.createCacheCluster passing in params as the first argument and a
function argument with err and data arguments as the second.
If there is an err object, then call reject with the err argument, otherwise,
call resolve with the data argument.
Now we finish the script so we can run it by switching to your command line
and running the command node create‑redis‑cluster.js.
Once it's complete,
your Redis cluster will be booting up. To use the Redis cluster in our code,
we only need to make a minor change. In index.js at the root of the project,
there are a couple of sections that we need to uncomment. This section
at the top inside of options is the first, so uncomment that. This
will configure our happy server to use a Redis plugin and make a
connection to it to use as a cache.
Then scroll down to where we define this cache const and
uncomment the line with the property cache.
This sets the Redis cache as the default cache to use for user sessions.
Back in the top section of code,
we need to add the host of the Redis cache cluster we just created.
The cache creation can take a while so I'm skipping the video in
time here to when the cache is available. Open your AWS console
and go to the ElastiCache dashboard.
Click on the Redis menu on the left‑hand side menu,
then expand the cluster we created, and copy the primary
endpoint field without the port at the end.
Back in your code editor, paste the value on Line 16.
Now save that file, and we've got our application already to use.
It would be really great to be able to try this out locally,
but unfortunately we can't easily access a Redis cluster
running in ElastiCache outside of the VPC in AWS.
We could configure a NAT to access it,
but that's a little overkill for this course.
Instead, we're going to update the code in AWS and see it work remotely.
I've created a deploy script that will push your code out
to your instance and get it running.
All you need to do is provide an IP.
So let's go to the EC2 dashboard and the Auto Scaling Group's screen.
Select our auto scaling group and then the Instances tab.
You should see just one instance,
so select it. Now grab the public IP, and we're going to
be using this in our command line.
So switch over to the command line and then run the command npm run
deploy ‑‑ and then a space and then paste the IP address.
If you follow the video exactly to this point,
you should be able to run this command and not have any problems.
If you made any modifications outside of what I was instructing,
you may need to update some of the values in the deploy.js file at
the root of the project. On running this command, it will zip up all
your code, upload it to the instance,
then extract the zip file, install dependencies, and restart the
application. In the next clip, we're going to look at limits you may run into when working with any of these persistent services.